Dev docs for transfer engine (#16953)
strapi/strapi: docs/docs/docs/01-core/data-transfer/01-engine.md

## Code location

`packages/core/data-transfer/src/engine/index.ts`

## The transfer process

A transfer starts by bootstrapping and initializing itself and the providers. That is the stage where providers attempt to make any necessary connections to files, databases, websockets, etc.

After that, the integrity check between the source and destination is run, which validates the requirements set by the chosen schemaStrategy and versionStrategy.

Note: Schema differences during this stage can be resolved programmatically by adding an `onSchemaDiff` handler. However, be aware that this interface is likely to change to a more generic engine handler (such as `engine.on('schemaDiff', handler)`) before this feature is stable.

Once the integrity check has passed, the transfer begins by opening streams from the source to the destination one stage at a time. The following is a list of the stages in the order they are run:

1. schemas - content type schemas. Note: with all built-in Strapi destination providers, only the Strapi file provider makes use of this data

> 2. entities - all entities (including media data records, not files) _without their relations_

Reviewer: Might be worth adding it does include components & dynamic zones though

`context` is an object of type `SchemaDiffHandlerContext`

```typescript
// type Diff can be found in /packages/core/data-transfer/src/utils/json.ts
type SchemaDiffHandlerContext = {
  ignoredDiffs: Record<string, Diff[]>;
  diffs: Record<string, Diff[]>;
  source: ISourceProvider;
  destination: IDestinationProvider;
};
```

`next` is a function that is called, passing the modified `context` object, to proceed to the next middleware function.

```typescript
const diffHandler = async (context, next) => {
  const ignoreThese = {};
  // loop through the diffs
  Object.entries(context.diffs).forEach(([uid, diffs]) => {
    for (const [i, diff] of diffs) {
      // get the path of the diff in the schema
      const path = [uid].concat(diff.path).join('.');

      // Allow a diff on the country schema displayName
      if (path === 'api::country.country.info.displayName') {
        if (!isArray(context.ignoredDiffs[uid])) {
          context.ignoredDiffs[uid] = [];
        }
        context.ignoredDiffs[uid][i] = diff;
      }
    }
  });

  return next(context);
};

engine.onSchemaDiff(diffHandler);
```

> After all the schemaDiffHandler middleware has been run, another diff is run between `context.ignoredDiffs` and `context.diffs` and any remaining diffs that have not been ignored are thrown as fatal errors and the engine will abort the transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After all the schemaDiffHandler middlewares have been run, another diff is run between `context.ignoredDiffs` and `context.diffs` and any remaining diffs that have not been ignored are thrown as fatal errors and the engine will abort the transfer.
```

Author: I believe that's actually correct because English is weird. But if you think it's confusing I could make it "middlware functions"

Reviewer: Damn it, for once I thought I got you :sweat_smile: 
If it's intentional I fully trust you

### Progress Tracking events

The transfer engine allows tracking the progress of your transfer either directly with the engine.progress.data object, or with listeners using the engine.progress.stream PassThrough stream. The engine.progress.data object definition is of type TransferProgress.

Here is an example that logs a message at the beginning and end of each stage, as well as a message after each item has been transferred

```typescript
const progress = engine.progress.stream;

progress.on(`stage::start`, ({ stage, data }) => {
  console.log(`${stage} has started at ${data[stage].startTime}`);
});

progress.on('stage::finish', ({ stage, data }) => {
  console.log(`${stage} has finished at ${data[stage].endTime}`);
});

progress.on('stage::progress', ({ stage, data }) => {
  console.log('Transferred ${data[stage].bytes} bytes / ${data[stage].count} entities');
});
```

Note: There is currently no way for a source provider to give a "total" number of records expected to be transferred, but it is expected in a future update.

> The following events are available:

Reviewer: Should we detail the different payloads for each kind of event (stage vs transfer events)?

Author: I think that would be a nice iteration but I felt it was too much for this version

`stage::start` - at the start of each stage
`stage::finish` - at the end of each stage
`stage::progress` - after each entitity in that stage has been transferred
`stage::skip` - when an entire stage is skipped (eg, when 'only' or 'exclude' are used)
`stage::error` - when there is an error thrown during a stage
`transfer::init` - at the very beginning of engine.transfer()
`transfer::start` - after bootstrapping and initializing the providers, when the transfer is about to start
`transfer::finish` - when the transfer has finished
`transfer::error` - when there is an error thrown during the transfer

### Diagnostics events

`engine.diagnostics.onDiagnostic(formatDiagnostic('export'));`

> **TODO**

Reviewer: Is it considered to be part of this PR or the next one?

`stage::skip` - when an entire stage is skipped (eg, when 'only' or 'exclude' are used)
`stage::error` - when there is an error thrown during a stage
`transfer::init` - at the very beginning of engine.transfer()
`transfer::start` - after bootstrapping and initializing the providers, when the transfer is about to start
`transfer::finish` - when the transfer has finished
`transfer::error` - when there is an error thrown during the transfer

### Diagnostics events

The engine includes a diagnostics reporter which can be used to listen for diagnostics information (debug messages, errors, etc).

Here is an example for creating a diagnostics listener:

```typescript
// listener function
const diagnosticListener: DiagnosticListener = (data: GenericDiagnostic) => {
  // handle the diagnostics event, for example with custom logging
};

// add a generic listener
engine.diagnostics.onDiagnostic(diagnosticsListener);

// add an error listener
engine.diagnostics.on('error', diagnosticListener);

// add a warning listener
engine.diagnostics.on('warning', diagnosticListener);
```

To emit your own diagnostics event:

```typescript

> const event: ErrorDiagnostic = {
>   kind: 'error',
>   details: {
>     message: "Your error"
>     createdAt: new Date(),
>   },
>   name: "myError",
>   severity: 'fatal',
>   error: new Error("my error")

Author: ```suggestion
const event: ErrorDiagnostic = {
  kind: 'error',
  details: {
    message: 'Your diagnostics message'
    createdAt: new Date(),
  },
  name: 'yourError',
  severity: 'fatal',
  error: new Error('your error message')
```

### Diagnostics events

> The engine includes a diagnostics reporter which can be used to listen for diagnostics information (debug messages, errors, etc).

Reviewer: Maybe we could show example on how to listen on specific events (onError, onWarning, onInfo)

Here is an example for creating a diagnostics listener:

```
// listener function
const diagnosticListener: DiagnosticListener = (data: GenericDiagnostic) => {
  // handle the diagnostics event, for example with custom logging
}

// add a generic listener
engine.diagnostics.onDiagnostic(diagnosticsListener);
// OR
engine.diagnostics.addListener('diagnostic', diagnosticListener);

// add an error listener
engine.diagnostics.addListener('diagnostic.error', diagnosticListener);

// add a warning listener

> engine.diagnostics.addListener('diagnostic.warning', diagnosticListener);

Reviewer: Where did you see this addListener? :thinking: 

From what I see you have access to:
```ts
function onDiagnostic(listener: DiagnosticListener): this;
function on<T extends DiagnosticKind>(kind: T, listener: DiagnosticListener<T>): this;

function report(diagnostic: Diagnostic): this;
```

Author: Oops, I was looking at the internal definition for the reoprter. Good catch.

Author: @Convly Fixed and added emitting events too.
